[DOC] Adding doc for Partial Projection (#10135)
apache/incubator-gluten: docs/developers/PartialProject.md

# Partial Projection Support

> In Gluten, there is still a gap in supporting all Spark expressions natively (e.g., some json functions or Java UDFs). Sometimes, Gluten will choose the JVM code path to run the code, which can introduce performance regressions. Partial projections were added to improve performance in these cases.

Reviewer: Nit: break long line into several code lines.

Author: done

## Detailed Implementations

### Adding Partial Projection for UDF

> For example, with the expression hash(udf(col0)), col1, col2, col3, col4, partial projection allows us to convert only col0 to row or column to Arrow as input, and convert udf(col0) as an alias partialProject1_. Then, ProjectExecTransformer will handle hash(partialProject1_), col1, col2, col3, col4, partialProject1_. This feature saves the cost of converting the columnar format to row format and vice-versa.

Reviewer: Suggest to use \` (backquote) to mark the expression for readability.

Author: done

> ## Adding Partial Projection for Unsupported Expressions

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention `spark.gluten.expression.blacklist`? We can use this configuration to fallback to vanilla spark when some expressions have inconsistent behaviors.

---
layout: page
title: PartialProject
nav_order: 15
parent: Developer Overview
---

# Partial Projection Support

> In Gluten, there is still a gap in supporting all Spark expressions natively (e.g., some json functions or Java UDFs). In this case, Gluten will choose the JVM code path to run the expressions, which can introduce performance regressions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Gluten, there is still a gap in supporting all Spark expressions natively (e.g., some JSON functions or Java UDFs). In this case, Gluten will choose the JVM code path to run the expressions, which can introduce performance regressions.
```

> Partial projections were added to improve performance in these cases. It allows Gluten to minimal data copy between JVM and C++, thus there is no big performance regression. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Partial projections, which allow Gluten to minimal data copy between JVM and C++, were added to avoid these performance regressions. 
```
Suggestion made primarily for conciseness. Let me know if my suggestion changes the meaning in a way that is incorrect!

## Detailed Implementations

### Adding Partial Projection for UDF

> For example, with the expression `hash(udf(col0)), col1, col2, col3, col4`, partial projection allows us to convert only `col0` to row or column to Arrow as input, and convert `udf(col0)` as an alias `partialProject1_`. Then, ProjectExecTransformer will handle `hash(partialProject1_), col1, col2, col3, col4, partialProject1_`. This feature saves the cost of converting the columnar format to row format and vice-versa.

Reviewer 3: No change suggested, just noting that I like this example as it's easy to understand.

## Adding Partial Projection for Unsupported Expressions

> The partial projection feature can also benefit from expressions that are not natively supported. For example, `substr(from_json(col_a))`. Since from_json is not fully supported, Gluten may use the JVM code path. Instead of projecting the whole expression, partial projection will attempt to project `from_json()` and perform a native projection of `substr()`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The partial projection feature can also benefit from expressions that are not natively supported. For example, `substr(from_json(col_a))`. Since `from_json` is not fully supported, Gluten may use the JVM code path. Instead of projecting the whole expression, partial projection will attempt to project `from_json()` and perform a native projection of `substr()`.
```
